
Aliens of Extraordinary Ability

Question: What is Aliens of Extraordinary Ability?
Answer: EB-1 visas are the first-preference group of employment-based immigration petitions.
This kind of immigration is called “Alien of Extraordinary Ability”. Alien of Extraordinary Ability is an important policy of the U.S. government to recruit talents. So far, this project has attracted tens of thousands of talented people from all over the world. According to the Immigration & Nationality Act, aliens who meet the criteria of "outstanding talents" can apply for immigration and obtain a green card directly without employers (without applying for a PERM Labor Certification). Moreover, applicants can apply anywhere in the world.

According to Immigration & Nationality Act, EB-1 is divided into three types of applications: EB-1A Alien of Extraordinary Ability, EB-1B Researchers/Outstanding Professors and EB-1C Multinational Executive or Manager. This category shares 40,000 immigration quotas per year. According to immigration & Nationality Act, applicants from mainland China account for 7% of the annual quota. Most of the overseas Chinese are most interested in EB-1 Application.

Alien of Extraordinary Ability (EB-1A) (see Immigration & Nationality Act 203 (b) (1) (A))

Alien of Extraordinary Ability mainly refers to those outstanding professionals who have special talents in five fields of science, art, education, business, or sports, have achieved higher achievements and enjoy national or international prestige, and are widely recognized in this field. These people should be regarded as one of the "Few Outstanding Talents" in this field. According to the legal requirements, Applicants should be willing to continue their work in the United States, and their work will contribute substantially to the development of American society after they obtain the green card. No Labor Certification is Required. No permanent job offer is required. 
Self -Petition is Allowed. 



　　How to judge " Extraordinary Ability", Immigration & Nationality Act gives two criteria:
1. The first criterion is that the petitioner only needs to prove that he or she has received more than one internationally recognized award. The criterion of Extraordinary Ability can be met by internationally recognized award without providing other evidence. Immigration & Nationality Act does not give the scope of major international awards. Based on our experience, such as Nobel Prize, Oscar Prize, Olympic Medal, Pulitzer Prize or International Major Inventions and Creations are accepted as internationally recognized awards. Few people can meet this criterion. So Immigration & Nationality Act provides a second criterion, and Alien of Extraordinary Ability who meets the second criterion can still immigrate to the United States.

2. The second criterion provides another criterion, that is, the petitioner only needs to meet any three of the ten criteria stipulated in the Immigration & Nationality Act, and then can apply for EB-1A Aliens of Extraordinary Ability through the subjective judgement of the immigration officer. Attorney Gu and his team helped thousands of clients successfully immigrate to the United States. They all applied on through this criterion and successfully immigrated to the United States.

　　The petitioner meets any three of the ten criteria stipulated in the Immigration & Nationality Act.
1) Evidence of receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Based on the experience of our team, the petitioner 	needs to win at least three awards to meet this criterion.
2) Evidence of your membership in associations in the field which demand outstanding achievement of their members
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Based on the experience of our team, it is very difficult 	for applicants to meet this criterion. Most associations that only need to pay application 	fees or membership fees will not be accepted by USCIS.

3) Evidence of published material about you in professional or major trade publications or other major media
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: According to the circulation of media, we can judge 	whether the media belongs to the "main media". However, with the progress of 	society and science and technology, more and more paper media have withdrawn 	from the stage of history, and the judicial standards of USCIS have also changed. 	Now USCIS also accepts the reports from the Internet media. The main Internet 	media in China, such as Sina, Sohu, Tencent News and Phoenix News, are all accepted   
Chinese media. The media in Europe and America need to be mainstream media or related professional media, such as www.techcrunch.com, www.thenextweb.com, etc. 
　　Media coverage must include headlines, dates, authors, and detailed 
　　translations.
　　In addition, in recent years, USCIS has been more and more strict in checking media 	coverage. Simple media coverage is of no significance to EB-1A application. Media 	coverage needs to be specific, preferably in the form of exclusive interviews.
4) Evidence that you have been asked to judge the work of others, either individually or on a panel
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Applicants must complete at least three reviews if they 	want to meet this criterion. Applicants in the field of science need at least 8 to 10 		reviews. The applicant must evaluate and appraise the works of others in his or her 		professional field or other related fields.
5) Evidence of your original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance to the field
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: This criterion is the most flexible of all the 10 criteria, 	and can be considered as an "all-round" option for Aliens of Extraordinary Ability. 	Generally speaking, we suggest that clients should patent application certificates, 	expert recommendation letters, business contracts and other evidence.
6) Evidence of your authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major media
Professional Attorney Analysis: USCIS pays more attention to the quantity and quality of articles. Many applicants mistakenly believe that publishing a lot of articles in a short time can meet such requirements. USCIS will focus on citation of articles published by applicants. Generally speaking, it is easier for applicants in the fields of medicine, biology, chemistry, physics and other natural sciences to obtain a large number of citations. The articles of applicants in computer, mathematics and some liberal arts fields will be less cited.
7) Evidence that your work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Generally speaking, artists and architects can meet this 	requirement. It should be noted that photographs are not enough evidence, and 	applicants need to provide complete evidence to prove that they meet this 	requirement.
8) Evidence of your performance of a leading or critical role in distinguished organizations
Professional Attorney Analysis: According to the instructions of the U.S. Immigration Act, applicants should not only prove that their organizations are "important", but also that 	their positions are "critical" and "major". In addition, 	applicants need to provide at least two important positions.
9) Evidence that you command a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Firstly, the applicant needs to provide relevant tax 	payment and income certificate. Then Attorney will sort out and compare the materials. 	Attorney will find salary standards for applicants’ domestic counterparts as well as 	those for their American counterparts in order to prove that applicants earn far more 	than their counterparts.
10) Evidence of your commercial successes in the performing arts
Professional Attorney Analysis: With the development of science and technology, USCIS keeps pace with the times. Very few tapes or CDs can be found in the market today, so most of the information used by attorneys now is online clicks and online revenue.
　　
　　
Question: The application process of Aliens of Extraordinary Ability
Answer: 
STEP 1: Preliminary assessment
       Potential clients will receive the result in one business day.
STEP 2: Sign the agreement and prepare the materials.
      Time for preparation: 15 days to 3 months.
STEP 3: Submit all the materials to USCIS.
      Option 1: Choose premium processing 
                  You will get the application result within 15 days.
　　　Option 2: Choose ordinary processing 
                  You will get the application result within 3 to 7 months.
STEP 4: Situation 1: I-140 is approved by USCIS.
          Situation 2: I-140 is denied by USCIS.
　　　Situation 3: Request for Evidence. The response must be received by USCIS within 89 				days.
　　STEP 5: Situation 1: In the United States, the clients can submit I-485 application.
　　　　　Situation 1: Outside the United States, the clients pay NVC filing fee, submit DS-260, 					notarization and other materials to the National 	Visa Center 
　　Step 6: Wait for an interview notice from USCIS(I-485) or the U.S. Consulate in Guangzhou 		  (CP). If visa is available, the client can get the interview notice within 3 to 6 months. 		  If visa is not available, the client needs to wait.
　　Step 7: Check-up, interview and obtain an immigration visa.
　　Step 8: If there is an administrative process, please ask an attorney to submit an inquiry.


Question: Online evaluation of Aliens of Extraordinary Ability
Answer: 
YesNoa. Awards: Do you have any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence?
　　Please list:b. Media Reports：Do you have any published material about you in professional or major trade publications or other major media?
Please list:c. Published Articles：Do you have any scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major media?
Please list:d. Leading Role: Do you hold leading or critical role in distinguished organizations?
　　Please list:e. Judge：Have you reviewed three or more projects or articles?
Please list:f. High salary: Do you command a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field?
　　Please list:g. Exhibition：Have you ever held an exhibition?
　　Please list:h. Membership: Have you participated in associations in the field which demand outstanding achievement of their members?
Please list:i. Do you have any original works? Patents?
　　Please list:j. Do you have any commercial successes?
　　Please list:
　　
　　
Question: Document list of Aliens of Extraordinary Ability
Answer: 
a. Awards
　　Each award should include the following information:
* Award presentation time, name, award level, selection criteria (official website links or documentation);
* The introduction of the award and the importance of the award (whether there is objective evidence such as media reports);
* The importance of the organizing committee or the selection committee for awarding awards (website links);
* Whether other winners are outstanding talents in the industry (including the introduction of other winners, media reports, etc., focusing on their senior positions or major achievements);
* How many people win this award every year?
* Previous award winners (focusing on their senior positions or major achievements).

b. Membership in professional associations
　　Each membership needs to include the following information:
* The name of the association, admission time and criteria of membership (which can be searched on the membership certificate or official website), the position of the association;
* Introduction of the Association (Official Website);
* Only the member who has achieved outstanding achievements can join the association.
* If you have joined a professional association and presided over the trial of new members, please explain.

c. Media Reports
　　Each report should include the following information:
* Media reports includes time, place, author, title and circulation, as well as the name and introduction of the media;
* It can be a network media. Please provide specific websites and webpages;
* It must be a report on the applicant's outstanding talents/skills/awards, etc. Other reports are meaningless;
* Whether it has been posted/reproduced (especially in the mainstream media). If so, please provide the website;
* If you are interviewed by a TV program, you need to provide interviewers, time, place and content.

d. Judge/Reviewer
　　The experience of each judge should include:
* Time, place, project, the composition of the candidates, the introduction and importance of the awards, etc.;
* Introduction of Qualification and Assessment Projects;
* Letter of thanks or certificates;
* Records of the manuscript review system;
* Introduction about journal;

e. Original Contributions
　　Applicant's original contribution in the field:
* The original contribution of the applicant in the industry; (Please provide objective evidence, such as media reports, patent, articles, etc.)
* Letter of recommendation;
* The influence of original contribution on society or real life;
* The original contribution is cited by other peers in the industry.
* Above should highlight "originality" and "contribution" (applicant’s original contribution is widely used)

f. Published Articles
　　Each article written by the applicant should include:
* Complete articles;
* Circulation and Independent Citations (CNKI, Google scholar)  
* Introduction to magazines or periodicals
* If it is a book, please provide cover, catalogue, author's article page, if it is a monograph, provide cover catalogue.

g. Leading role
* Introductions or background information of working organizations/groups (please provide website)
* It is necessary to prove that the organization/group is an important group (media reports, etc.).
* The Applicant’s important positions and tenure.
* Major conferences, speeches, projects which she/he participated in.

h. High Salary
* Tax certificates for the past five years;
* Evidence of the average wages for different posts in the past two years stipulated by the National Statistical Office (National Statistical Office: http://www.stats.gov.cn/)
* Whether the annual income (salary, bonus, bonus, bonus, welfare, etc.) of the past five years can reach more than 150,000 US dollars.
* Media coverage of it;
* Industry reports on other high-income people in the industry.


i. Exhibitions:
* The work is painted or directed by the applicant.
* Publicity materials for exhibitions and programs;
* Report on exhibitions and programs;
* Evidence of profitable income;
* Objective evidence of the applicant's drawing or guidance; (including publicity works, etc.)

j. Success in performing, arts and commerce:
* Movie name, release time, box office and click-through volume of network broadcasting platform;
* Party income;
* Movie Review;
* Press conference information and other related media reports;
* Contract;
* release time, title of the song, DVD, network download clicks, CD/DVD revenue, digital album sales;
* Income from other performing arts.

A. Frequently Asked Questions about EB-1A Aliens of Extraordinary Ability
Q: What is USCIS?
A: The USCIS, also known as the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, is a government office charged with handling immigration, citizenship, and residency among people from foreign countries who wish to live in the United States. USCIS deals mainly with employment-based immigration cases, family-based immigration cases, etc.


Q: What is NVC?
A: The NVC, also known as National Visa Centre, is mainly responsible for the issuance of immigrant visas.

Q: What is EB-1?
A: EB-1 is the acronym of Employment-Based First Preference Immigration. It refers to employment-based first-preference. For EB-1 category, USCIS gives 40,000 immigration visas a year. The quota allocated to each country is 7%. That is to say, there are 2800 immigrant visas for every citizen born in mainland China every year.

Q: What is EB-1A?
A: The EB-1A Alien of Extraordinary Ability is a first-preference employment-based petition.
Alien of Extraordinary Ability refer to those who have special talents and great achievements in the fields of art, science, education, commerce and sports.

Q: What documents I need to prepare for EB-1A application?
A: You need to submit I-140 forms, G-28 forms, petition letter, personal statement, recommendation letters and other material related to your achievements.

Q: Who bears the burden of proof in the EB-1A application?
A: In the EB-1A application, the applicant and his lawyer bear the burden of proof. According to Immigration & Nationality Act, the application materials need to meet the criteria of Preponderance of Evidence at least.


Q: If the applicant simultaneously meets the requirements of EB-1A, EB-1B and EB-2 NIW , which one should the applicant choose? 
A: If the requirements of EB-1A, EB-1B and EB-2 NIW can be met at the same time, Attorney Gu and his teams recommend that you apply for EB-1A and EB-2 NIW. There are three reasons: Firstly, EB-1B requires an employer’s sponsorship with a corresponding job offer. EB-1A does not require employer’s sponsorship and permanent job offer. The applicants can self-petition for EB-1A. Secondly, if the applicant changes his employer in the process of applying for EB-1B, the application may be terminated. Thirdly, as a large number of Chinese applicants are applying for EB-1A, Attorney Gu predicts that EB-1A will progress Slightly or Remain Unchanged. Therefore, Attorney Gu suggests that applicants can apply for EB-1A and EB-2 NIW at the same time. EB-1B applications require relatively low academic achievement. Generally speaking, the choice should be made according to the specific situation of the applicant. Therefore, in this case, we recommend that you consult a senior immigration lawyer before making a decision.


Q: Can applicants apply for EB-1A and EB-2 NIW at the same time?
A: Yes. Many of our clients have chosen to submit two applications at the same time. Generally, one application is approved earlier than the other. In addition, Attorney Gu predicts that EB-2 NIW will be scheduled faster than EB-1A in the long run.

Q: Can a Ph.D. student or Master students apply for EB-1A?
A: Of course. We have helped some Ph.D. students apply for EB-1A successfully. Generally speaking, it is difficult for Ph.D. students to apply for EB-1. Because it is difficult for PhD students to meet the academic achievement standard required by EB-1A.

Q: Can applicants with a bachelor's degree or without a university degree apply for EB-1A?
A: Yes. Immigration & Nationality Act does not require academic qualifications. We have successfully applied for EB-1A for many business and art professionals with no or low academic qualifications. Please see our successful case analysis (here is a link).

Q: How many articles should the applicant publish before applying for EB-1A?
A: Immigration & Nationality Act do not provide for the number of published articles. USCIS will treat each specific case differently. The number of published articles is only an optional criterion, not an explicit requirement for EB-1 applications.

Q: What is a letter of recommendation?
A: Recommendation letters are written by experts in the field of the applicants. The letter of recommendation will give a detailed description of the capabilities and contributions of EB-1 applicants. It is worth noting that the best referrals is an independent expert.

Q: Who should the applicant get the letters of recommendation from?
A: Recommendation letters should be written by experts or scholars in relevant professional fields. Usually, our clients invite their former professors, collaborators, employers, or other people they know at industry meetings to write recommendation letters. Of course, you can also find some experts and scholars who are not familiar with the applicants but have a reputation in the industry to write letters of recommendation. Any expert or scholar who has a better understanding of the applicant's work and field can issue a recommendation letter for the applicant.


Q: Would you provide a template for recommendation letters?
A: Yes. We will search the database according to the applicant's field and provide a template for recommendation letters.

Q: How many letters of recommendation do I need?
A: USCIS does not specify the number of letters of recommendation, but we recommend that applicants provide 5-7 letters of recommendation.

Q: What should be included in the letter of recommendation?
A: Recommendation letters are an important part of the application and provide the most important evidence support. Recommendation letters generally include the qualifications of the referees, the relationship between the referees and the applicants, how the applicants make outstanding contributions in this field, and how they can bring benefits to the United States.

Q: For me, it's difficult to get letters of recommendation. Are these letters important?
A: Recommendation is not a necessary condition when applying for EB-1A, but for most EB-1A applicants, recommendation letter is a very important proof of their qualifications and an important guarantee for the application.

Q: My professors are very busy. I don't like to use their prestige like this. What should I do?
A: Recommendation letters are difficult to write. Normally, professors don't have time to write in person. Relatively speaking, they prefer to review a prepared letter of recommendation and sign it. Therefore, in this process, we will prepare samples of recommendation letters, and ensure that the final recommendation letter meets the EB-1 application standards in language and content, so as to enhance the persuasion of the recommendation letter.

Q: My friend and I are in the same situation. He recently obtained the approval of the EB-1A application. Can my EB-1A application be approved?
A: Even if the conditions of applicants are basically the same, each application has its own differences. Different applications may lead to different results. Our attorneys can make a free professional assessment of your situation based on your resume.

Q: l haven’t publish any articles in academic journals in my field yet. Can I apply for EB-1A?
A: Yes. Although having a certain number of published articles in journals will increase the chances of approval, there is no requirement that applicants must have published articles . However, for general scholars, teachers and researchers, “published articles in academic journals” is a very easy criterion to meet. In fact, it would be difficult to apply for EB-1A if no articles were published.

Q: If I am not a member of any academic organization in the professional field, can I apply for EB-1A?
A: Yes. Although membership of a well-known academic research organization in a particular field increases the chances of approval, there is no requirement that applicants must be members of an academic organization. In addition, the membership of a general academic organization does not necessarily improve the chances of applying for approval. For example,you can join the American Physical Society, the American Cancer Society, the American Biological Association, and so on by paying $25 to $75 membership dues . However, membership in these organizations will not help you in your application, because participating in these organizations does not require outstanding research achievements.

Q: If my EB-1A application is approved, when can I apply for I-485 or Consular Process?
A: When the EB-1A schedule becomes "Current", the applicant can submit an I-485 or apply for Consular Process at any time.

Q: In addition to EB-1A, what other categories of employment-based immigration do not require PERM Labor Certification?
Answer: EB-1B ,NIW and EB-5.

Q: To apply for EB-1A, should I stay in the United States?
A: No. Whether you are in the United States or not, you can apply as long as you meet the requirements of EB-1A.


National Interest Waiver

B. What is National Interest Waiver?

National Interest Waiver (NIW) petition falls in the second-preference group of employment-based immigration petitions.
There are two different types of Second Preference Employment Based Immigration.

1. EB-2 PERM (employer)
Applicants must obtain a job offer and labor certification. The employer will file EB-2 I-140.For more information, please click EB-2 PERM.
2. National Interest Waiver (No employer)
1) A National Interest Waiver (NIW) is a special petition falls in the employment-based, second-preference (EB-2) immigration category. 1）employer  2)job offer and labor certification . An NIW requests these requirements be waived for the sake of the “national interest of the United States,” thus allowing an applicant to apply for this status without a labor certification or a job offer from a U.S. employer. The petitioner/beneficiary may file an NIW I-140 petition on behalf of him- or herself.（INA Section 203 b.2) B) , 8 U.S.C. Section 1153 b)2)B) & 8 C.F.R. Section 204.5. k) 4) 

The provisions of the Immigration & Nationality Act on EB-2 NIW are very abstract. While each NIW case is adjudicated on its individual merits, the burden of proof is always on the applicant or beneficiary to establish that exemption from labor certification will be in the national interest of the U.S. Immigration & Nationality Act has not provided clear provisions on how to determine whether aliens are in line with the specific criteria and conditions of national interests. The United States follows European and American legal system, so NIW standards have been changed accordingly with the judgment of cases in history.



Phase 1: Pre NYSDOT(Prior to 1998)
Prior to 1998, the USCIS AAU(The Administrative Appeals Office) gave seven criteria to determine whether the applicant met the requirements:
1) Improving the U.S. economy;
2) Improving wages and working conditions for U.S. workers;
3) Improving education and programs for U.S. children and underqualified workers;
4) Improving health care;
5) Providing more affordable housing;
6) Improving the U.S. environment and making more productive us of natural resources; and
7) Interested government agency request

Phase 2: NYSDOT(1998-2016)
 In the case of the New York State Department of Transportation(EAC 96 063 51031, AAO August 7, 1998), the Administrative Appeals Office established the standard by which National Interest Waivers are approved or denied.
Over the next 20 years, NYSDOT's criteria have been guidelines for NIW application conditions:
1) The beneficiary must seek to work in an area of substantial intrinsic merit;
2) The beneficiary’s work must have a benefit which will be national in scope;
3) The beneficiary must serve the national interest to a substantially greater degree than would an available U.S. worker having the same minimum qualifications. The national interest would be adversely affected if a labor certification were required for the beneficiary.

Phase 3: Matter of Dhanasar(2016-present)
On December 27, 2016, In the case of Matter of Dhanasar, the Administrative Appeals Office  argued that the definition of criteria for NIW applications initially established by NYSDOT was too vague. So, AAO established new criteria to measure NIW application conditions for national interests. If you would like to know more about Matter of Dhanasar, please click here.
USCIS may grant a national interest waiver if the petitioner demonstrates:
1) that the applicant’s proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance;
1) that the applicant is well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor; and
2) that, on balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the job offer and labor certification requirements.


The changes in NIW requirements of USCIS in three different periods are as follows:
Prior to 19981998-20162016-present1) Improving the U.S. economy;
2) Improving wages and working conditions for U.S. workers;
3) Improving education and programs for U.S. children and underqualified workers;
4) Improving health care;
5) Providing more affordable housing;
6) Improving the U.S. environment and making more productive us of natural resources; and
7) Interested government agency request
1) The beneficiary must seek to work in an area of substantial intrinsic merit;
2) The beneficiary’s work must have a benefit which will be national in scope;
3) The beneficiary must serve the national interest to a substantially greater degree than would an available U.S. worker having the same minimum qualifications. The national interest would be adversely affected if a labor certification were required for the beneficiary.


2) the applicant’s proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance;
3) the applicant is well-positioned to advance the proposed endeavor; and
4)  on balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job offer and thus of a labor certification.

	



C. The requirements of National Interest Waiver
The first requirement 
Applicants holding Advanced Degree or aliens of Exceptional Ability
1.  Advanced Degree (M.A. or B.A/B.S. or foreign equivalent plus 5 years of progressive post-degree experience in the specialty
Most applicants will meet the requirement of "Advanced Degree" rather than "Exceptional Ability
". For EB-2 applicants with a higher degree, i.e. a master's degree or above, they need to submit form (I-140) along with one of the following two items:
I. Official Certificate of Education    A U.S. master’s degree or higher or a foreign degree evaluated to be the equivalent of a U.S. master’s degree or higher;
II. Official Certificate of Education    The applicant has a bachelor's degree equivalent to that of the United States, and letters of recommendation from past/current employers certifying that the applicant has more than five years' experience in his or her professional field.

2. Exceptional Ability
Aliens must be able to show exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or business. Exceptional ability “means a degree of expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered in the sciences, arts, or business.
EB-2 NIW applicants should meet at least three of the following requirements:
1) Degree relating to area of exceptional ability;
2) Letter from current or former employer showing at least 10 years of experience;
3) License to practice profession;
4) Person has commanded a salary or remuneration demonstrating exceptional ability;
5) Membership in a professional association;
6) Recognition for achievements and significant contributions to the industry or field by peers, governmental entities, or professional or business organizations.

The second requirement 
Please see USCIS’s memo. USCIS may grant a national interest waiver if the petitioner demonstrates:
1) that the foreign national’s proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance;
2) that he or she is well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor; and
3) that, on balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the job offer and labor certification requirements.

Since the release of Dhanasar standard, many applications based on the new standard have been approved. See successful case analysis.

Unlike EB-1A, U.S. Immigration & Nationality Act does not specify what kind of talents can apply for NIW. According to my experience, the following industries can apply for NIW.

Business: Professional managers, entrepreneurs, financial analysts,
Science: Software Engineer, Hardware Engineer, Biological Engineer, Chemical Engineer, Mechanical Engineer, Medical Researcher, Physical Researcher, Biological Researcher, Chemical Researcher, Physical Researcher, Nanotechnology Researcher, Nuclear Physical Researcher,
Art: Painter, musician, pianist,
Education: physical education coach, preschool teacher,
Sports: Athletes
Others: TV hosts


D. The application process of National Interest Waiver

STEP 1: Preliminary assessment
      Potential clients will receive the result in one business day.
STEP 2: Sign the agreement and prepare the materials.
      Time for preparation: 15 days to 3 months.
STEP 3: Submit all the materials to USCIS.
　　　 Choose ordinary processing 
           You will get the application result within 3 to 7 months.(Somebody may get the 			   result within 12-24 months.)
           No premium processing service for NIW. 
STEP 4: Situation 1: I-140 is approved by USCIS.
          Situation 2: I-140 is denied by USCIS.
　　　Situation 3: Request for Evidence. The response must be received by USCIS within 				89 days.
　　STEP 5: Situation 1: In the United States, the clients can submit I-485 application.
　　　　　Situation 1: Outside the United States, the clients pay NVC filing fee, submit DS-260, 					notarization and other materials to the National Visa Center 
　　Step 6: Wait for an interview notice from USCIS(I-485) or the U.S. Consulate in Guangzhou 		  (CP). If visa is available, the client can get the interview notice within 3 to 6 months. 		  If visa is not available, the client needs to wait.
　　Step 7: Check-up, interview and obtain an immigration visa.
　　Step 8: If there is an administrative process, please ask an attorney to submit an inquiry.


E. Online evaluation of National Interest Waiver
YesNoa. The prospective beneficiary must seek employment in an area of substantial, intrinsic merit;
　Please explain.b. The proposed benefits of the beneficiary’s work is national in scope.
　Please explain.c. The beneficiary must show that requiring a labor certification would adversely affect the U.S. national interest.
　Please explain.
　　
　　
F.  Document list of National Interest Waiver
1) The prospective beneficiary must seek employment in an area of substantial, intrinsic merit;
a. Media Reports
　　Each report should include the following information:
* Media reports includes time, place, author, title and circulation, as well as the name and introduction of the media;
* It can be a network media. Please provide specific websites and webpages;
* It must be a report on the applicant's outstanding talents/skills/awards, etc. Other reports are meaningless;
* Whether it has been posted/reproduced (especially in the mainstream media). If so, please provide the website;
* If you are interviewed by a TV program, you need to provide interviewers, time, place and content.

b. Published Articles
　　Each article written by the applicant should include:
* Complete articles;
* Circulation and Independent Citations (CNKI, Google scholar)  
* Introduction to magazines or periodicals
* If it is a book, please provide cover, catalogue, author's article page, if it is a monograph, provide cover catalogue.

c. Citations (CNKI, Google scholar) 

d. Exhibitions:
* The work is painted or directed by the applicant.
* Publicity materials for exhibitions and programs;
* Report on exhibitions and programs;
* Evidence of profitable income;
* Objective evidence of the applicant's drawing or guidance; (including publicity works, etc.)

e. Evidence that the applicant's field of study can bring benefits to the United States.

2) The proposed benefits of the beneficiary’s work is national in scope.
a. Media Reports
　　Each report should include the following information:
* Media reports includes time, place, author, title and circulation, as well as the name and introduction of the media;
* It can be a network media. Please provide specific websites and webpages;
* It must be a report on the applicant's outstanding talents/skills/awards, etc. Other reports are meaningless;
* Whether it has been posted/reproduced (especially in the mainstream media). If so, please provide the website;
* If you are interviewed by a TV program, you need to provide interviewers, time, place and content.

b. Letters of Recommendation from experts in industry;
* Background information of the referees;
* Explain how the referee knows the referee.
* Subjective evaluation of the applicant's field by the referee;

c.  Membership in professional associations
　　Each membership needs to include the following information:
* The name of the association, admission time and criteria of membership (which can be searched on the membership certificate or official website), the position of the association;
* Introduction of the Association (Official Website);
* Only the member who has achieved outstanding achievements can join the association.
* If you have joined a professional association and presided over the trial of new members, please explain.

3) Documentation evidencing waiving the requirement for labor certification would benefit the U.S. national interest.

G. Frequently Asked Questions about NIW National Interest Waiver
Q: What is USCIS?
A: The USCIS, also known as the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, is a government office charged with handling immigration, citizenship, and residency among people from foreign countries who wish to live in the United States. USCIS deals mainly with employment-based immigration cases, family-based immigration cases, etc.


Q: What is NIW National Interest Waiver?
A: A National Interest Waiver (NIW) petition is part of the employment-based, second-preference immigration category. There are two types. First, the employer must provide permanent job position, file labor certification and submit I-140 petition. Secondly, the applicants can apply for NIW. Based on the consideration of the national interests of the United States, the United States Government gives priority to foreign talents who contribute to the interests of the United States, thus enabling qualified foreign applicants to obtain green cards.

Q: What are the minimum requirements for an NIW? 
A: A National Interest Waiver (NIW) petition is part of the employment-based, second-preference immigration category. The beneficiary must obtain" Advanced Degree" or have "Exceptional Ability." Please note that meeting the minimum standards does not mean that the application can be approved.

Q: What is an “Advanced Degree Professional”?
A: The beneficiary either has an advanced degree (M.A., M.S., M.E., M.D., or Ph.D.) or its foreign equivalent, and is working in an area that requires at least a bachelor's degree or is traditionally regarded as a profession requiring a high level of postsecondary education, such as a lawyer, doctor, architect, engineer, or professor. In some cases, a bachelor's degree plus five years or progressive experience in a professional occupation may satisfy the requirement of an "advanced degree.”



Q: What is an “Exceptional Ability”?
A: Aliens must be able to show exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or business. Exceptional ability “means a degree of expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered in the sciences, arts, or business.
EB-2 NIW applicants should meet at least three of the following requirements:
1)Degree relating to area of exceptional ability;
2)Letter from current or former employer showing at least 10 years of experience;
3)License to practice profession;
4)Person has commanded a salary or remuneration demonstrating exceptional ability;
5)Membership in a professional association;
6)Recognition for achievements and significant contributions to the industry or field by peers, governmental entities, or professional or business organizations.


Q: In order to apply for NIW, must the applicant satisfy "Advanced Degree" and "Exceptional Ability"?  
A: No. The applicant should satisfy one of them. Many applicants mistakenly believe that these two conditions need to be met simultaneously when applying for NIW. In fact, applicants only need to prove that they have a "Advanced Degree" or "Exceptional Ability". It is not necessary to prove that you satisfy both conditions at the same time.

Q: What documents do you need to prepare to apply for NIW?  
A: Applicants applying for NIW need to submit I-140 form, NIW Petitioner Letter and ETA-750B form to USCIS, as well as relevant materials that can prove that the applicant has a "Advanced Degree" or "Exceptional Ability".

Q:  What is the NIW standard under current U.S. immigration law? 
A: The Immigration Act of 1990 allows the labor certification requirement to be waived for "Advanced Degree Professionals" or persons of "Exceptional Ability" whose work would substantially benefit the national interests of the U.S. Applicants who apply for NIW can file NIW themselves. For more information about the law, please click here 8U.S.C. 1153 (b) (i)

Q: How does USCIS determine its decisions regarding NIW cases??
A:?The following three factors are considered in determining whether an alien will substantially benefit the national interests of the United States:
1) that the applicant’s proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance;
2) that the applicant is well-positioned to advance the proposed endeavor; and
3) that, on balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job offer and thus of a labor certification.
The labor certification process exists to protect the jobs and job opportunities of U.S. workers having the same minimum qualifications as an alien seeking employment. The petitioner, whether the employer or the alien him- or herself, must establish that the beneficiary will serve national interests to a substantially greater degree than would an available U.S. worker having the same minimum qualifications.

Q: Can you confirm the success of the NIW application? ?
A: There are no laws or regulations to describe the rigid criteria for applications. The applicant and the attorney are required to provide evidence to USCIS to demonstrate that the applicant is  qualified for NIW. Based on our experience, the more convincing the letters of recommendation and petition letters are, the higher the success rate of applications will be.

Q: How important are personal skills and special backgrounds in the application process?  
A: It is not enough to emphasize the applicant's personal skills and special background. It is important that the applicant's personal skills and special background bring national interests to the United States, which should outweigh the national interests of "protecting the interests of American workers". The petitioner and the attorney should persuade that foreign applicants would bring huge national benefits to the United States.

Q: Who has the burden of proof in NIW application?  
A: The applicant and his/her attorney have the burden of proof.

Q: If the applicant is an academic researcher, what is the minimum requirement of the number of publications for NIW application?  
A: USCIS and Immigration & Nationality Act do not have special provisions on this. Of course, if you publish more academic articles, you will get higher chances of approval .

Q: If the applicant is a business elite, can he apply for NIW?  
A: Yes, of course. I have handled many national interest talents in business, such as well-known commercial real estate executives in China. For more information, click on Successful Cases Analysis.

Q: Is it necessary to prove that there is a shortage of labor in applicant’s field of work?
A: No. Matter of New York State Dep't of Transp. (NYSDOT) made it clear that proving a shortage of labor in the applicant's field of work was not a factor in consideration of the  national interest waiver. Moreover, Dhanasar decision issued in 2016 directly skips this issue. For NIW application, labor certification requirements is waived for the sake of the "national interest."

Q: In addition to NIW, what other categories of Employment Based Immigration do not require a labor certification?  
Answer: If you meet the requirements of an employment-based, first-preference petition, you would not need a labor certification. .If you meet the requirements of EB-1A you do not need employers to provide permanent jobs. For more information, please click here.

Q: Does the applicant need to live in the United States to apply for EB-2 NIW?  
A: No. Whether the applicant is in the United States or not, he or she can apply for NIW. We have successfully helped many applicants get the approval of NIW.

Q: Why does NIW require letters of recommendation? 
A: Applicants need to get letters of recommendation from experts or authoritative scholars in the field of work or related fields to prove the ability and achievements of applicants. The experts will prove that the applicants can bring national interests to the United States. This is subjective evidence in the application process. Recommendation letters are very important.

Q: Who can write the letters of recommendation?
A: There are many ways to get letters of recommendation.
1. experts in their field of work
Explain that the applicant has made important contributions in this field and can bring benefits to the United States.
2. Experts or companies that have used applicants’ research and work results.
3. Current or former employer.
Generally speaking, attorney suggest that applicants need at least 3-5 independent referees to write letters of recommendation. That is to say, applicants need to find referees who have not worked with the applicant but know the applicant's achievements in this field. Such letters of recommendation from independent referees are more important than letters of recommendation from referees who know applicants.


Q: What should we pay attention to when writing recommendation letters?  
A: Recommendation letters are used to recommend the applicant's professional competence, talent and achievements in an objective and impartial manner. Another important point is that the referee needs to write about the national interests that the applicant will bring to the United States. Since the success of the application depends largely on the letters of recommendation, our attorneys will provide suggestions on the letter of recommendation according to the specific conditions of clients. If you have more questions, please send email to info@owenlawpc.com

Q: Will attorneys provide recommendation letters service?  
A: Yes. According to the different specialties and needs of different clients, we will select samples of recommendation letter from our database and help the clients revise the letters. Our sample covers a wide range of professions, including business, chemistry, physics, art, medical research, engineering, sports, music, etc.

Q: Can artists or musicians apply for NIW?  
A: You can apply for NIW as long as you meet the criteria of NIW. We have successfully helped many musicians, dancers, singers get the NIW approval.

Q: If the applicant has not published articles in professional journals, can the applicant apply for EB-2 NIW?  
A: Of course. USCIS and Immigration & Nationality Act do not require applicants to publish articles before applying for NIW. They do not stipulate that applicants who have published works can get the approval of NIW. However, if the applicant has published articles, his/her application will have more chances of approval.

Q: If the applicant has not won an award in the professional field, can the applicant apply for NIW?   
A: Of course. USCIS and Immigration & Nationality Act do not require applicants to win awards before applying for NIW. They do not stipulate that applicants who have won awards can get the approval of NIW. Similarly, if the applicant has won the relevant awards ,his/her application will have more chances of approval.

Question: The applicant wants to apply for EB-1A. Can applicants apply for NIW at the same time?   
A: Yes. Applicants can apply for EB-1A I-140 and EB-2 NIW I-140 at the same time. Applicants can apply for multiple categories at the same time. This can improve the success rate of applicants, because it is difficult to predict which application will be approved by USCIS.

Q: If I have submitted an application through other immigration categories, can I apply for NIW?  
A: Yes. After applying for immigration through other immigration categories, you can also apply for NIW.

Q: If I submit NIW and EB-1A at the same time, will they have adverse effects on each other?   
A: No. There is no connection between these two applications and they will not affect each other.

Q: Which petition is better, EB-2 NIW, or EB-1A?
A: You can submit NIW and EB-1A at the same time. However, the two categories are different. The chances for approval of EB-1(a) are generally not high, but if your application is well prepared and persuasive, you d’ better to apply for EB-1A.

At present, for applicants born in China’s mainland, EB-1A immigrant visa is not available in two years, and EB-2 NIW immigrant visa is not available in three to four years. Therefore, our attorneys strongly suggest that the applicants submit NIW and EB-1A at the same time.

Q: If the applicant's EB-2 PERM labor certification is pending, can the applicant apply for NIW?  
A: Yes. EB-2 PERM labor certification and EB-2 NIW are independent applications. U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) handles applications for labor certification. USCIS handles NIW petitions. If EB-2 PERM labor certification is denied, the applicant's EB-2 NIW may be approved.

Q: What is EB-2 Request for Additional Evidence(RFE)?  
A: The USCIS considers that the applicant does not have sufficient evidence to prove that he or she meets the requirements of EB-2 NIW. In this case, USCIS will send RFE notice requiring the applicant to continue to submit evidence that the applicant lacks.

Q: If I have filed NIW application, when is my Priority Date?  
A: The applicant's priority date is the date USCIS receives your NIW petition and approves your NIW I-140. If NIW I-140 is not approved, the applicant has no Priority Date.

Q: The applicant is currently an F-1 student. Can he apply for NIW?
A: Yes. If the applicant meets the requirements of National Interest Talents (EB-2 NIW), he can apply for NIW.

Q: I am currently in J-1 status and subject to the two-year home country residency requirement. Can I apply for NIW?  
A: Yes. You must obtain a J-1 waiver or meet the requirement of two-year home country residence before you submit I-485 or a Consular Processing.

Q:  I am currently in J-1 status and subject to the two-year home country residency requirement. If I apply for an NIW and get it approved, is my J-1 home country requirement waived? 
A:  No, a J-1 waiver and an NIW are two different things. A J-1 waiver is an application to waive the two-year home country residency requirement. An NIW is a waiver of the job offer and labor certification requirements.

Q: If my NIW is approved, can I adjust my status?  
Answer: It depends on whether an immigrant visa is available. If immigrant visa is available, you can apply for I-485 Adjustment of Status or Consular Processing. Please click on visa bulletin.



Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor

H. What is Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor?

　　Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor(EB-1B) (see Immigration & Nationality Act 8 C.F.R. §203(b)(1)(B))

　　The Outstanding Researcher or Professor is a first-preference employment-based petition. EB-1B mainly applicable to outstanding professors or researchers who have gained international reputation in specific scientific and academic fields and are widely recognized in this field. In addition, at least three years of relevant research or teaching experience is required. EB-1B does not need to apply for a PERM Labor certification. EB-1B requires the permanent job offer from the employer.

　　According to 8 C.F.R. §204.5(i)(3)(ii), experience in teaching or research while working on advanced degree may be counted if degree is acquired, person had full responsibility for the class taught, or the research has been recognized as outstanding in the academic field.

I. The requirements of Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor

　　How to judge "Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor", Immigration & Nationality Act gives three criteria:
　　
　　1． They must have earned international reputation in particular scientific or academic field, and their achievements are widely recognized.
　　2． They must have at least three years of relevant research or teaching experience in  particular scientific or academic field.
　　The accumulated teaching and research experience of aliens during the period of studying 	for advanced degree can be taken into account. But the premise is that the alien needs to get advanced degree. Experience in teaching or research while working on advanced degree may be counted if degree is acquired, person had full responsibility for the class taught, or the research has been recognized as outstanding in the academic field.

　　3． They must have got a permanent job offer for a research position or a tenured teaching position from their sponsoring employer.
　　Permanent job offer means that employers offer jobs without deadlines, and employees can continue to work unless they are fired for any reason.
　　Most jobs can be considered permanent jobs, except for jobs with clear deadlines.
　　Part-time jobs can also be recognized as permanent jobs if there is no fixed time limit. In addition, a permanent job position can be a future job opportunity offered by the employer to the applicant.
　　
　　a)Tenure (or tenured track) teaching position within a university or institution of higher education; 
　　b)A comparable position at university or institute of higher education to conduct research; or 
　　c)A comparable position to conduct research with private employer if it employs at least 3 full-time researchers and the departmental, division or institution has achieved documented accomplishments in an academic field. 
　　But, research will not include engineering or product design because such activity is the “technological application of existing research.” 
　　
　　
　　When the above three criteria are met, , the beneficiary must also meet at least two of the six criteria of Immigration & Nationality Act.:
1) Documentation of the alien's receipt of major prizes or awards for outstanding achievement in the academic field;
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: It can be any national award or internationally 	recognized award, or a major award in the provincial or municipal region.
2) Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the academic field which require outstanding achievements of their members;
Professional Attorney Analysis: Based on the experience of our team, it is very difficult for applicants to meet this criterion. Most associations that only need to pay application fees or membership fees will not be accepted by USCIS.
3) Evidence of published material about you in professional or major trade publications or other major media
Professional Attorney Analysis: According to the circulation of media, we can judge whether the media belongs to the "main media". However, with the progress of society and science and technology, more and more paper media have withdrawn from the stage of history, and the judicial standards of USCIS have also changed. Now USCIS also accepts the reports from the Internet media. The main Internet media in China, such as Sina, Sohu, Tencent News and Phoenix News, are all accepted Chinese media. The media in Europe and America need to be mainstream media or related professional media, such as www.techcrunch.com, www.thenextweb.com, etc. Media coverage must include headlines, dates, authors, and detailed translations.
　　In addition, in recent years, USCIS has been more and more strict in checking media 	coverage. Simple media coverage is of no significance to EB-1A application. Media 	coverage needs to be specific, preferably in the form of exclusive interviews.
4) Evidence that you have been asked to judge the work of others, either individually or on a panel
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: Applicants must complete at least three reviews if they 	want to meet this criterion. Applicants in the field of science need at least 8 to 10 		reviews. The applicant must evaluate and appraise the works of others in his or her 	professional field or other related fields.
5) Evidence of your authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major media
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: USCIS pays more attention to the quantity and quality of 	articles. Many applicants mistakenly believe that publishing a lot of articles in a short 	time can meet such requirements. USCIS will focus on citation of articles published by 	applicants. Generally speaking, it is easier for applicants in the fields of medicine, 		biology, chemistry, physics and other natural sciences to obtain a large number of 		citations. The articles of applicants in computer, mathematics and some liberal arts 	fields will be less cited.
6) Evidence of your original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance to the field
　　Professional Attorney Analysis: This criterion is the most flexible of all the 10 criteria, 	and can be considered as an "all-round" option for Aliens of Extraordinary Ability. 	Generally speaking, we suggest that clients should patent application certificates, 		expert recommendation letters, business contracts and other evidence.
　　
J. The differences between EB-1A Aliens of Extraordinary Ability and EB-1B Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor
EB-1B 
Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding ProfessorEB-1A 
Aliens of Extraordinary AbilityRequirements Application requirements are lower than those of EB-1A
Application requirements are higher than those of EB-1B
Applicants’ FieldsIn particular scientific or academic fieldin five fields of science, art, education, business, or sportsEmployerEmployer must provide permanent job offer. The petitioner is the employer.The alien can apply for EB-1A without employer 

Can you change your employer?If the employer is replaced during the application period, the application shall be suspended.No employer.
You can change employers at will.Working experienceAt least three years of relevant research experience or teaching experienceThere is no specific requirement for working experience.     
K. The application process of Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor
STEP 1: Preliminary assessment
      Potential clients will receive the result in one business day.
STEP 2: Sign the agreement and prepare the materials.
      Time for preparation: 15 days to 3 months.
STEP 3: Submit all the materials to USCIS.
      Option 1: Choose premium processing 
                  You will get the application result within 15 days.
　　　Option 2: Choose ordinary processing 
                  You will get the application result within 3 to 7 months.
STEP 4: Situation 1: I-140 is approved by USCIS.
          Situation 2: I-140 is denied by USCIS.
　　　Situation 3: Request for Evidence. The response must be received by USCIS within 89 				days.
　　STEP 5: Situation 1: In the United States, the clients can submit I-485 application.
　　　　　Situation 1: Outside the United States, the clients pay NVC filing fee, submit DS-260, 					notarization and other materials to the National 	Visa Center 
　　　　　Note：EB-1B applicants will apply for EB-1B in the United States.
　　Step 6: Wait for an interview notice from USCIS(I-485) or the U.S. Consulate in Guangzhou 		  (CP). If visa is available, the client can get the interview notice within 3 to 6 months. 		  If visa is not available, the client needs to wait.
　　Step 7: Check-up, interview and obtain an immigration visa.
　　Step 8: If there is an administrative process, please ask an attorney to submit an inquiry.


L. Online evaluation of Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor
YesNok. Awards: Do you have any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence?
　　Please list:l. Media Reports：Do you have any published material about you in professional or major trade publications or other major media?
Please list:m. Published Articles：Do you have any scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major media?
Please list:n. Judge：Have you reviewed three or more projects or articles?
Please list:o. Membership: Have you participated in associations in the field which demand outstanding achievement of their members?
Please list:p. Do you have any original works? Patents? Can you provide any letters of recommendation?
　　Please list:q. Are there any employers willing to offer you permanent job offer?
    Please provide more information about the employer.r. Do you have more than three years of relevant research or teaching experience?
　　Please explain.( time period and the position you have
　　 held.)
　　
M.  Document list of Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor
　　1． Employer's Permanent job offer Letter or Contract (Including Employer's Information)
　　2． Over three years of relevant research experience or teaching experience. Please provide relevant contracts, work certificates and certificates of responsibility can be issued.
　　3． Please provide the following materials, the applicant's resume and the letter of recommendation from referees in the same field.

k. Awards
　　Each award should include the following information:
* Award presentation time, name, award level, selection criteria (official website links or documentation);
* The introduction of the award and the importance of the award (whether there is objective evidence such as media reports);
* The importance of the organizing committee or the selection committee for awarding awards (website links);
* Whether other winners are outstanding talents in the industry (including the introduction of other winners, media reports, etc., focusing on their senior positions or major achievements);
* How many people win this award every year?
* Previous award winners (focusing on their senior positions or major achievements).

l. Membership in professional associations
　　Each membership needs to include the following information:
* The name of the association, admission time and criteria of membership (which can be searched on the membership certificate or official website), the position of the association;
* Introduction of the Association (Official Website);
* Only the member who has achieved outstanding achievements can join the association.
* If you have joined a professional association and presided over the trial of new members, please explain.

m. Media Reports
　　Each report should include the following information:
* Media reports includes time, place, author, title and circulation, as well as the name and introduction of the media;
* It can be a network media. Please provide specific websites and webpages;
* It must be a report on the applicant's outstanding talents/skills/awards, etc. Other reports are meaningless;
* Whether it has been posted/reproduced (especially in the mainstream media). If so, please provide the website;
* If you are interviewed by a TV program, you need to provide interviewers, time, place and content.

n. Judge/Reviewer
　　The experience of each judge should include:
* Introduction of Qualification and Assessment Projects;
* Letter of thanks or certificates;
* Records of the manuscript review system;
* Introduction about journal;

o. Published Articles
　　Each article written by the applicant should include:
* Complete articles;
* Circulation and Independent Citations (CNKI, Google scholar)  
* Introduction to magazines or periodicals
* If it is a book, please provide cover, catalogue, author's article page, if it is a monograph, provide cover catalogue.


p. Original Contributions
　　Applicant's original contribution in the field:
* The original contribution of the applicant in the industry; (Please provide objective evidence, such as media reports, patent, articles, etc.)
* Letter of recommendation;
* The influence of original contribution on society or real life;
* The original contribution is cited by other peers in the industry.
* Above should highlight "originality" and "contribution" (applicant’s original contribution is widely used)


N. Frequently Asked Questions about EB-1B Outstanding Researcher/Outstanding Professor
Q: During my application for EB-1B, I lost my permanent job. Will my application be approved?
A: If the employer does not withdraw the application, your application may still be approved. If the employer withdraws the application, your application will be invalid. Only if you have submitted I-485 and have worked with your employer for 180 days can I-485 application be approved.

Q: If my EB-1B application has been approved, do I need to continue working in the field of application?
A: You must continue to work in the relevant fields of EB-1B application. Otherwise, the pending I-485 or the approved I-485 may be cancelled by USCIS.

Q: My employer is willing to apply for EB-1B for me. Can I submit EB-1A and EB-1B at the same time?
A: You can submit EB-1A and EB-1B applications at the same time. The two applications are independent applications, and their respective application results will not affect each other. You can also submit EB-1A, NIW and EB-1B at the same time.

Q: I work part-time in academic research with a private employer. The salary is calculated at $50 per hour. Can I qualify for a permanent research position? The contract does not specify the specific termination time of the position.
A: Not always. You are qualified for a permanent research position and you are also working in the field of academic research. But the EB-1B requirement specifies that permanent job offers need to be provided by private employers who employ at least three full-time researchers and have made outstanding contributions in the field.

Q: I am a professor in a university in the United States . Can I apply for EB-1B?
A: Not necessarily. It depends on whether you are a tenured professor in the university. There are many definitions of "permanent job position". The application procedure of EB-1B is more complicated. If you think you may meet the requirements of EB-1B, you can fill out online assessment form. (Online assessment form, please click here)


L1  Multinational Company Transferee

O. What is L-1 visa?
The L-1A visa is designed for intra-company executive and managerial transferees relocating to the United States. U.S employer can be companies that operate for more than one year or new companies (usually with a one-year visa period). The visa period for L-1 visa varies according to the company's situation. L-1 non-immigrant visa applications for the first time can be granted for a period of one year or three years .If the US affiliated company is less than one year, only one year visa can be obtained. Foreign applicants can obtain a non-immigrant visa for up to three years if they meet a one-year requirement and have actual business and staff in an affiliated company in the United States. With extensions, the maximum stay of L-1A visa is seven years. The maximum stay of L-1B visa is five years. 

In the application of L-1 visas, qualifying aliens are the beneficiaries of L-1 applications, Qualifying businesses are the sponsoring petitioners.The beneficiary must be employees who have worked for a subsidiary, parent, affiliate, or branch office of the company for at least one year of the three years prior to filing an L-1 petition. The petitioner must be a parent company, child company, or sister company of the foreign company. 

There are two types of L-1 visas—the L-1A and the L-1B—each of which has different qualification requirements. The L-1A is specifically designed for company bigwigs like executives or upper-level management, while the L-1B is reserved for intra-company transfers of employees with “specialized knowledge.”L-1B holders cannot apply for an EB-1C visa

A petitioner that meets relevant requirements may file a blanket petition seeking continuing approval of itself or all of its parent, branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates as qualifying organization. L Visa Blanket Petition is only applicable to L-1A, which is a simple and fast procedure for large companies. For More Information, please click Blanket L-1A.

The spouse and any unmarried children under the age of 21 of L-1 holders are eligible for L-2 visas. The L-2 classification allows L-1 dependents to live with L-1 holders in the United States for the duration of their stay. L-2 holders are able to attend school, but in order to work legally, they must apply for an Employment Authorization Document (EAD). 


P. The requirements of L-1 visa

General Requirements for the L-1 Petitioner: The Employer
1. “qualifying relationship” 
In L-1 visa applications, there must be at least two companies - a) companies in the United States and b) companies outside the United States. The relationship between the two companies can be:
1) Parent-subsidiary company: parent company accounts for more than 51% of the shares of subsidiary company;
2)Affiliated affiliations: For example, third-party holding more than 50% of U.S. domestic and foreign companies.
3) Joint venture
Classic cases:Matter of Hughes,18 I&N Dec. 280 (Comm.1982):Joint venture company, American company has 50% control of management and policy.

9 FAM 41.54 N.6.1-4b. : If two parent companies own 50% of the company (joint venture), the joint venture company is a subsidiary of two parent companies.

2. Doing business

“Doing business” is defined as regular, systematic, and continuous providing of goods or services. “Doing business” does not include mere presence of an agent or office in the U.S. and abroad. 


L-1A Employee Requirements
1. The alien employee must have worked abroad for the overseas company for a continuous period of one year within the three years immediately preceding his or her admission to the United States. 
Professional Attorney Analysis: In November 2018, USCIS released the latest Memo to refine the this requirement.
a. The one continuous year of qualifying employment must occur outside the United States  
The one-year foreign employment requirement is only satisfied by the time a beneficiary spends physically outside the United States working full-time for the petitioner or a qualifying organization.5  A petitioner cannot use any time that the beneficiary spent in the United States to meet the one-year foreign employment requirement, even if the qualifying foreign entity paid the beneficiary and continued to employ the beneficiary while he or she was in the United States.  Furthermore, the one continuous year of foreign employment must be qualifying; that is, the petitioner must demonstrate that the beneficiary worked abroad during that time period in a managerial, executive, or specialized knowledge capacity.   

b. Brief trips to the United States for business or pleasure do not interrupt the one continuous year 
While a qualifying foreign entity employs a beneficiary abroad, brief trips to the United States for business or pleasure in B-1 or B-2 status toll6 the one continuous year of employment abroad.  Therefore, in such cases, officers should subtract the number of days the beneficiary spent in the United States from the time the qualifying foreign entity employed the beneficiary abroad.  For example, if the qualifying foreign entity began to employ the beneficiary on January 1, 2016, and the beneficiary made brief trips to the United States that year for a total of 60 days, the beneficiary would need to accrue at least an additional 60 days of qualifying employment abroad after January 1, 2017, in order to meet the one-year foreign employment requirement.  

c.  Time the beneficiary spent working “for” the qualifying organization in the United States results in an adjustment of the three-year period for determining whether the beneficiary has met the one-year foreign employment requirement 
By regulation, time a beneficiary spent working in the United States “for” a qualifying organization does not count towards the one-year foreign employment requirement; however, this time does result in an adjustment of the three-year period (8 CFR 214.2(l)(1)(ii)(A)).  A non-immigrant in the United States will be considered to have been admitted to work “for” the qualifying organization if he or she is employed by that organization as a principal beneficiary of an employment-based non-immigrant petition or application, such as H-1B or E-2 executive, supervisory, or essential employee.7  For example, if a beneficiary worked in the United States in valid H-1B status for a qualifying organization from January 2, 2017, through January 2, 2018, and the petitioner filed for L-1 non-immigrant status for the employee on January 2, 2018, the pertinent three-year period will be from January 1, 2014, to January 1, 2017.    

d. Periods of employment with the qualifying organization in the United States as a dependent or student do not result in an adjustment of the three-year period for purposes of determining whether the beneficiary has met the one-year continuous foreign employment requirement 
Conversely, the time a beneficiary spent working while in a dependent status will not result in an adjustment of the three-year period. For example, time spent by a beneficiary in L-2 status will not result in an adjustment of the three-year period, because the beneficiary was admitted as an L-2 to join the L-1 principal and not to work “for” a qualifying organization.  Likewise, if a beneficiary was admitted as an F-1 non-immigrant and later applies for optional practical training (OPT) employment with the qualifying organization, the time spent in F-1 non-immigrant status will not result in an adjustment to the three-year period, because the purpose of admission was for study and not to work “for” the qualifying organization.  Moreover, this would not change even if the qualifying organization financed the F-1 non-immigrant’s studies.  In neither of these instances should the three-year period be adjusted.

e. Periods of time in the United States not working or working for an unrelated employer do not result in an adjustment of the three-year period during which the beneficiary must have been continuously employed for one year abroad 
Periods of time the beneficiary spent in the United States without working (except for brief visits for business or pleasure in B-1 or B-2 status), or while working for an unrelated employer, interrupt the one continuous year foreign employment requirement, and officers should not adjust the three-year period. The relevant point in time for an officer to determine whether a beneficiary satisfies the one-year foreign employment requirement is the date on which the petitioner filed the initial L-1 petition, regardless of when the beneficiary was, or will be, admitted to the United States.   

f. The time a beneficiary spent in the United States, either not working or working for an unrelated employer, will not result in an adjustment of the three-year period.  
A two-year break in employment with the qualifying organization during the three years preceding the filing of the L-1 petition will render the beneficiary unable to meet the one-year foreign employment requirement.

g. When the petition requests an extension of L-1 status (including a change from L-1A to L-1B status, or a change from L-1B to L-1A.status), the requirement must have been met at the time of the filing of the initial L-1 petition.  

2. The employee must have been employed abroad in an executive or managerial position, otherwise known as a “qualifying position.”
3. The employee must be relocating to the U.S. to provide services in an executive or managerial capacity for a branch of the same employer or one of its qualifying organizations.
1) The employee must be qualified for the position by virtue of his or her education and experience.
2) The employee must intend to depart the United States upon completion of his or her authorized stay.

　　①　 executive position   
Making decisions with wide latitude and without much oversight.
1) Managing the whole company, or the company's important components, institutions.
2) Setting organizational goals or policies.
3) Making decisions on major decisions of the company;
4) Only accept the general supervision of the company's top management, including the higher executives and the board of directors.
　　②　 managerial position
Supervising and controlling the work of professional employees and to manage the organization, or a department, subdivision, function, or component of the organization.

1) Managing an organization, department, institution or part of an organization;
2) Supervising and controlling other supervisors, managers or professionals. Professionals listed in the Immigration Act include architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, and teachers from various educational institutions. Of course, it's not just about these professions.
3) Having the power to appoint and dismiss employees, or have the power to recommend personnel (for employees directly under their supervision), or manage a core department within the organization;
4) General management of day-to-day company affairs.
Please note that if a lower-level supervisor is directly managed by another higher-level supervisor, the lower-level supervisor generally does not meet the requirements of L-1A. However, if the supervisor manages the "professional" mentioned above, then he meets the requirements of L-1A. For example, if she/he supervises a lawyer or accountant in the company, then even if she/he is not a senior manager, she/he meets the requirements of L-1A.)

L-1B Employee Requirements

1) The employee must have worked abroad for the overseas company for a continuous period of one year within the three years immediately preceding his or her admission to the United States. 
2) The employee must seek to enter the United States to render services in a specialized knowledge capacity to a branch of the same employer or one of its qualifying organizations.
3) The employee must be qualified for the position by virtue of his or her specialized knowledge.
4) The employee must intend to depart the United States upon completion of his or her authorized stay.
Specialized knowledge 
Employees have special expertise in products, services, technology and other skills required by foreign companies, or they have a deep understanding of the specific processes of foreign companies (more advanced than their counterparts).

According to USCIS, beneficiaries seeking L-1B classification will be determined to have specialized knowledge if they have either “special” knowledge or “advanced” knowledge (or both). 
The specialized knowledge required in applying for L-1B refers to the special knowledge or  that individuals possess about the products, services, research, equipment, technology, management of a multinational corporation and application in the international market; or the advanced knowledge in the operation and procedures of the multinational corporation. USCIS lists qualified occupations, such as architects, engineers, lawyers, physicians, surgeons, teachers in various educational institutions. But it is not limited to these professions.

Note: a new company which is established in the United States
If alien employee plans to go to the United States to develop business or prepare for a new company,there is no need to prove the existence of an American company or business dealing between overseas company and American company, but needs to meet the following requirements:
1.The employee must have worked abroad for the overseas company for a continuous period of one year within the three years immediately preceding his or her admission to the United States. 
2.Having sufficient funds to settle the new company's office.
3. Within one year of L-1 visa approval,the employee must have been employed abroad in an executive or managerial position, otherwise known as a “qualifying position.(not applicable to L-1B)


Note：L Visa Blanket Petitions requirements
The employer must prove the following:
1. The company must already have an office in the United States that has been operating for at least one year.
2. The company must have at least three domestic and/or foreign branches, affiliates, or subsidiaries.
3. In addition, the company must meet one of the following three conditions:
1) The company must have obtained a minimum of 10 L-1 approvals in the 12-month period prior to filing a blanket petition.
2) The company and its branches, subsidiaries, or affiliates must have combined annual sales of at least $25 million dollars.
3) The company has a workforce in the United States of at least 1,000 employees.


Q. The application process of L-1 visa
STEP 1: Preliminary assessment
       Potential clients will receive the result in one business day.
STEP 2: Sign the agreement and prepare the materials.
      Time for preparation: 15 days to 3 months.
Note: Please see Document list of L-1A
1) If a client wants to set up a new company in the United States, he or she should register the company under the guidance of a lawyer, make a business plan, apply for a company's bank account, rent office space, apply for a business license, etc.
2) If an existing company is purchased directly, the client needs to determine target  company under the guidance of a lawyer.
STEP 3: Submit all the materials to USCIS.
      Option 1: Choose premium processing 
                  You will get the application result within 15 days.
　　　Option 2: Choose ordinary processing 
                  You will get the application result within 2 to 4 months.
STEP 4: Situation 1: I-129 is approved by USCIS.
          Situation 2: I-129 is denied by USCIS.
　　　Situation 3: Request for Evidence. The response must be received by USCIS within 89 days.
　　STEP 5: Outside the United States, the clients should complete DS-160, schedule 					an interview, prepare required documentation, attend the visa interview. 
　　　　　　If the beneficiary has legal status in the United States,, she/he can 						change his/her status to O-1 in the United States.


R. Online evaluation of L-1 visas
YesNo1)Have you worked abroad for the overseas company in an executive or managerial position for a continuous period of one year within the three years ?2） Will you apply for EB-1C in the future?3) Overview of foreign companies:
Please outline the nature of the company, the turnover of the company in the past five years and the number of employees in the company in the past five years.4) Number of employees of companies outside the United States:
　　Are there more than 15 employees in high-tech companies?
　　Are there more than 30 employees in non-high-tech companies?5) Are U.S. companies new?
If it's not a new company, please answer the question 66) Overview of Companies in the United States:
　　Please outline the nature of the company, the turnover of the company in the past five years and the number of employees in the company in the past five years.7) Relations between Overseas Companies and American  Companies
　　
　　
S.  Document list of L-1A
U.S company
1)Article of incorporation or association; 
2)Application for EIN (Form SS-4) / EIN letter from IRS;
3)Stock certificates issued by the U.S. company;  
4)Lease of business location;
5)Company Floor Plan, including total square feet)
6)Zoning Map that shows company business address is commercial or residential area 
7)If renting, please offer landlord’s name, its company name, address, contact number and the proof of paying rental.
Bank statement or wire transfer evidencing initial investment;
8)Audited accounting reports (balance sheets, profit/loss statements, cash flow reports);
9)Corporate income tax return Form 1120 (if any);  
10) Latest Employer’s Quarterly Report Form 941 (if any); 
11)Description of company business; Company brochures etc.; 
12)Commercial contracts, invoices, bills of lading, letters of credit, etc.; 
13)Bank statements; （last 3 months）
14)Recent Bank Account Balance Summary;
15)Company letterhead (several sheets), including the company’s logo, name, and address
16) Organizational chart of the company, plan of employing new employees;
17)Organizational structure of the Department that Beneficiary is working for, including employee list and positions held; 
18)Employees’ latest W-2/W-3s; 
19)Company’s payrolls for the last three months; 
20)Business plan if new company (attorney provide template or outsource)
21)Pictures of the main office (interior and exterior).


Foreign Company 
1)Business license and Organization Code Certificate ;
2) Tax Registration Certificate
3)Article of incorporation;
4)Income tax filings for the past three years;
5)Accounting reports (audited if available) (balance sheets, profit/loss statements, cash flow reports);
6)Organizational chart which lists all executives, managers, and department heads (including beneficiary);
7)Employees list with names and position held;
8)Company brochure or product introduction;
9)Documents of business transactions (contracts,  invoices, bills of lading, letters of credit);
10)Last three months Bank statements and bank statement for the month of January 2013;
11)Certificate of Good Credit from Bank 
12)Company letterhead with company logo, name, and address (20 sheets); 
13)Color photographs of company’s main office, factories, or buildings. 



 Beneficiary
1)Resume;
2)Diploma;
3)Employment verification letter from the foreign company (attorney can provide template);
4)Board resolution or appointment documents verifying the transfer;
5)Passport copies for beneficiary and family members; 
6)Beneficiary’s US visas
7)Beneficiary’s payrolls at the parent company for the latest year that beneficiary was employed at the parent company
8)Any other documents showing transferee’s capability to conduct business in the executive position



T. Frequently Asked Questions about L-1 visas

Q:Do I need to live in the U.S. to petition for an L-1?
A:No. If the beneficiary is already in the U.S. under another valid status, the petitioner should indicate that it is seeking a change of status on the Form I-129 petition. Such changes of status are not valid if changing from a visa waiver or C, D, K-1, K-2, S, TWOV, WT, or WB status. If the beneficiary is not already in the U.S. under another valid status or is not eligible to change status, the beneficiary must obtain his or her visa through consular processing upon approval of Form I-129.

Q:What is the maximum period of stay under an L-1 visa?
A:L-1A visas are granted initially for 3 years for existing companies and 1 year for U.S. new companies. With extensions, the maximum stay of L-1A visa is seven years. The maximum stay of L-1B visa is five years. 


Q: Do L-1 visa holders need to work full-time?
A: L-1 visa holders need to work full-time for the company, but not necessarily in the United States. Although the holder is employed by an American company, the L-1 visa holder can go to the United States for short-term work as long as the holder has a reasonable allocation of work to companies both inside and outside the United States. However, L-1 visa holders can only work for one employer.


Q:  Can L-1 visa holders change employment to work for another qualifying U.S. organization of the same foreign company?
A: No. If you change employment to work for another qualifying U.S. company,the other qualifying company must file another L-1 petition on your behalf, even though the qualifying company is of the same foreign company.


Q:What are the differences between L-1 and EB-1C?
A: L-1A is a non-immigrant work visa, while EB-1C is an immigrant visa for Manager or Executive Transferee.You can obtain green card through EB-1C. For the requirements of American companies, new companies or companies operating for more than one year can apply for L-1. To be eligible for an EB-1C petition, the U.S. company must have been continuously doing business for more than one year and should demonstrate a decent volume of business and number of employees. See the difference between L-1A and EB-1C.



Q: Can L-1 visa holders apply for EB-1C later?
A: The L-1A visa holders can apply for EB-1C later. To be eligible for an EB-1C petition, the U.S. company must have been continuously doing business for more than one year and should demonstrate a decent volume of business and number of employees.L-1B visa holders cannot apply for EB-1C.

Q:Can I apply for EB-1C directly?
A: Yes. To be eligible for an EB-1C petition, the U.S. company must have been continuously doing business for more than one year and should demonstrate a decent volume of business and number of employees It's best to have more than 10 employees with operating income of more than $1 million.

Q: If I am fired by an L-1 employer, will I leave the United States immediately?
A: Yes, you lost your L-1 status after your dismissal. If you can't find an employer willing to help you with your H-1B visa, you can't continue to work in the United States and need to leave the United States. Or, if you have a B1/B2 visa, you can change your status in the United States, but you can't work with B1/B2 visa.

Q: How many employees must the U.S. new company have to secure an L-1 visa?
There is no specific requirement for the number of employees that the U.S. new company must have.It does not necessarily need employees. Of course, it is better to have employees. The overseas affiliated company of the new company can invest at least 200,000 US dollars, and then increase the amount of investment according to the development of the company.

Q:Can I change from an L-1B to an L-1A?
A:Yes. The petitioner can change a beneficiary’s status from L-1B to L-1A by filling I-129 after the beneficiary has been promoted to an executive or manager position for a period of at least 6 months.

Q: If I can't change my status from L-1B to L-1A, how can I apply for a green card?
A: You can apply for EB-2/EB-3 PERM. If you are outstanding, you can also apply for EB-1A or NIW.


Q: Does the business of domestic and foreign companies in the United States have to be the same or relevant?
A: The law does not stipulate that businesses must be the same or similar, but it stipulates that companies both inside and outside the United States need qualified corporate relationships. According to experience, it is better for companies both at home and abroad to have the same or relevant business, which is helpful to apply for visas. The experience and skills of L-1 visa applicants are more suitable for companies with relevant business.

Q: Can the employer of L-1 applicant change the working address of employees?
A: Yes, the employer only needs to fill in AR-11 to modify the address.


Q: Do L-1 beneficiaries have to speak English or highly educated?
A: Not necessarily. If you can't speak English, you can ask for a full-time translator; if you don't have enough education, but you are experienced , you can still get L-1 visas.

Q: As an L-1 employer, do you have to pay employees salaries that meet prevailing wage?
A: There is no provision for this in law, but the salary paid by the employer must be in line with the size of the company, the nature of the company's business and the company's ability to pay.

Q:I’m currently in L-1A status, but I recently filed an I-485 adjustment of status petition based on an approved EB-1C visa application. Can I travel abroad while my application for adjustment of status is pending without jeopardizing my L status?
A: Yes. If your L visa is still valid, you may use it to re-enter the U.S. You will remain in L status when you return.
If your L visa expires while you are traveling, you can apply for a new L visa at a consular office overseas and use it to re-enter the U.S. in L status, provided you return to work for the same L visa petitioning employer.
If you use advance parole to re-enter, however, you will no longer be in L status; rather, you will be in parolee status.


Q: The validity of the L-1 visa sponsored by the new company is about to expire. The L-1 employer needs to extend the visa for the L-1 beneficiaries, but the performance of the American company may not be enough to apply for the L-1 extension. What should we do?
A 1) It can be said that the company has not been operating for more than a year. 2) American companies can buy other companies of a certain size to increase their income and meet personnel requirements. 3) If the L-1A visa holder meets the requirements of the L-1B visa, American companies can also submit new L-1B applications for employees. For details, please consult the experienced Attorney Owen Gu’s team.


H-1B
U. What is H-1B?

The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that enables U.S. employers to hire and temporarily employ foreign professional workers in specialty occupations. Other non-immigrant work visas include TN, O-1, E-2, L-1, P-1 visa, etc. H-1B visa holders may legally live and work inside the United States for a duration of 6 years.

To apply for H-1B visas, foreign nationals must possess at least a bachelor's degree or its equivalent. In many cases, this requirement can be satisfied by having a three-year degree in addition to three years of relevant post-graduate work experience.

Not necessarily any profession qualifies for an H-1B. A foreign worker must be in a “specialty” occupation. Qualifying occupations are those requiring highly specialized and technical knowledge in fields including, but not limited to:
* Law
* Accounting
* Architecture
* Biotechnology
* Computing
* Engineering
* Education
* Finance
* Healthcare and medicine
* Information technology
* Marketing
* Mathematics
* Telecommunications
* The arts
* The physical and social sciences

There are many qualified positions, not just those listed above. Although there has been no change in the law in recent years, the requirements of USCIS are becoming increasingly stringent. Some majors were previously recognized as Specialty Occupation. Now they are not considered to meet H-1B visa requirements. See H-1B case analysis.For example, Undergraduate majors of marketing managers do not necessarily study marketing, and CEOs can also be selected from all fields. Therefore, USCIS often denies H-1B applications for management. USCIS also denies H-1B applications that do not require professionals.

V. The types of H-1B
1. Capped H-1Bs 
The H1B quota or H1B cap is a numerical limit placed on the number of foreign workers authorized to work in the United States annually under H1B status. Created under the immigration act of 1990 and initiated on October 1,1991, it reached its maximum count of 65,000. Later, this was increased twice: to 115,000 for 1999–2000 and to 195,000 for 2001–2003. In 2004, the H-1B cap was reverted to 65,000 visas and 20,000 were added for applicants with U.S. postgraduate degrees .

Congress has authorized a maximum number of 65,000 H-1B visas to be issued annually, plus an additional 20,000 per year for H-1B beneficiaries with at least a master’s degree from a U.S. college or university or its foreign equivalent. 

2. Cap-exempted H-1B
It does not have quotas or annual restrictions. It is very popular. Applicants can apply for it at any time of the year. However, certain criteria must be met.
a. H-1B1:The H-1B1 is a subcategory of the H-1B visa designated for workers in specialty occupations,” with no quotes around specialty occupations from Chile and Singapore. 
b. H-1B2:The H-1B2 visa is intended for aliens who perform services of an exceptional nature relating to a cooperative research and development project administered by the United States Department of Defense (DoD). 
　　
c. H-1B3:The H-1B3 is a subcategory of the H-1B visa program designed for nationally or internationally recognized fashion models.  For more information, please click: (5.3)

W. Characteristics of H-1B
1. specialty occupation
It requires theoretical knowledge and practical application ability for a particular specialty.

2. educational requirements
1) A Bachelor's degree or Masters Degree (or the foreign equivalent degree from your Country, please see degree evaluation), OR
2) 12 years work experience , OR
3) A mix of further education + work experience 
USCIS generally considers three years of professional experience the equivalent of one year of college education.
If you do not complete four years of undergraduate education, you can also meet this requirement by having years of work experience in a particular field or a license in a professional field.

3. Wage Standards
Employers need to file LCA (Labor Conditions Application) to the U.S. Department of Labor to ensure that the employers (U.S. Petitioner 5.5)pay the same prevailing wage indicated to foreign workers(U.S. Beneficiary 5.6), offer the same benefits to H-1B visa holders as other employees.

4. Limits
Capped H-1Bs Congress has authorized a maximum number of 65,000 H-1B visas to be issued annually, plus an additional 20,000 per year for H-1B beneficiaries with at least a master’s degree from a U.S. college or university or its foreign equivalent. (6800 visas for Chile and Singapore.）
Cap-exempted H-1Bs: No limits

5. Change the job
　　After voluntary resignation or voluntary resignation, H-1B holders have three choices:
1) Apply for another non-immigrant visa ( change of Status 5.7)
2) Find the next employer to apply for H-1B within 60 days after leaving the company
3) Leave the United States
Please note that once the H-1B employee's work terminates (voluntarily or involuntarily), his/her H-1B status expires. That is to say, if you lose your job, you lose your legal status.
For more questions, please click here.

6. Dependents of H-1B workers
　　Spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21 are considered dependents of H-1B workers. They can apply for H-4(5.7) 
　　This classification permits “coextensive” stay, which is legalese for permission to enter and remain in the U.S. for as long as the H-1B visa holder has valid status.
　　H-4 holders can attend school, whether on a part-time or full-time basis. They aren’t allowed to work, unless they can obtain employment authorization from USCIS. 
　　

7. Dismissal and resignation:
Dismissal: If an employer (U.S. Petitioner 5.5) fires a foreign employee (U.S. Beneficiary 5.6) before his or her H-1B status expires, the employer will have to bear the cost of return air tickets for employees returning to their original (overseas) country of residence.
Resignation: If the H-1B status of a foreign employee (U.S. Beneficiary 5.6) leaves automatically before his or her H-1B status expires, the  employer does not have to pay any return tickets fees.

8. Green card application after obtaining H-1B:
The first method:  Employer-sponsored green card process
The second method: Self-petition   Please see EB-1A , EB-2 NIW.

Employer-sponsored green card process
Step 1: Find an employer willing to sponsor your green card and offer you a position that meets EB-2/EB-3 PERM. This can be your H-1B employer or any other employer.
Step 2: PERM (an ETA 9089 form must be filed.)
Step 3: File I-140 petition
Step 4: Once USCIS receives your application, that date is your priority date. Before entering the final step, you need to wait until your priority date changes to the current date
Step 5: Submit I-485 status after the visa is available. After the interview, USCIS will automatically make the green card and mail it to the applicant. The applicant will become a permanent resident of the United States on the date of approval.

X. The application process of H-1B
STEP 1: Identifying a Sponsor. The employer (U.S. Petitioner 5.5)can contact an 				immigration attorney to work on H-1B case.
STEP 2: The attorney collects all documents and information according to H-1B's application 		requirements.
　　STEP 3: The attorney obtains the prevailing wage determination for the area of intended 				employment of the employee. (U.S. Beneficiary 5.6) 
　　STEP 4: File the Labor Condition Application (ETA-9035).
　　　　Evaluation of an LCA typically takes a week.
　　The purpose of the LCA application is to ensure that the employers pay the same prevailing wage indicated, offer the same benefits to H-1B visa holders as other employees, and assure that employment of the alien will not negatively affect the conditions of other workers, including workers on strike and U.S. workers in general.
　　
　　STEP 5: After DOL approves the LCA, the attorney files the actual H-1B petition. For Capped H-1Bs, attorney can submit H-1B petition from the end of March to the beginning of April. For Cap-exempted H-1Bs,attorney can submit the petition at any time.
　　Step 6: When the number of applications exceeds the quota limit, USCIS will use computer to draw lots to select applicants. The process time is 2-4 months. (For Capped H-1Bs)


Y. Online evaluation of H-1B
1) Your major and educational background:2) The nature of your employer:3) Have you applied for H-1B visa before? If so, please answer question 4.4) The purpose of this application:
　　a. Change of employer b change of position c. continuation of previously approved employment without change with the same employer d. new concurrent employment5) The employer company's brief personnel structure and the number of employees:5) Your current legal status in the United States 
　　
　　
Z.  Document list of H-1B visa
From the employer:
1.Introduction (Company brochures), Name, permanent address, and phone and fax numbers, size, business, financial situation, employee situation of company
2.Job title of the position, along with a detailed description of duties, salary offered, and minimum qualifications for the job
3.Name and title of company agent signing forms on employer’s behalf
4.Federal tax ID number and the latest tax returns
5.Company letterhead (several copies)
6.Filling fee, Government fee, Anti-fraud fee, Labor training fee


From the employee:
1.Sponsorship of and job offer from a U.S. employer
2.Resume, Photo
3.Diploma
4.Transcripts
5.Passport, including the visas to enter the United States
6.Professional license(s), if applicable
7.Proof of prior U.S. legal status, if applicable
8.Recommendation letters from previous employers; certificates of honor

Not Required but Preferable if Employee is in U.S.:
1.Copy of the front and back of I-94, if applicable
2.Copy of I-20 authorizing practical training period
3.Copies of any prior H-1B approval notices
4.Copies of most recent paystubs from current H-1B employer, if applicable
5.Social Security number, if applicable
6.Copies of any prior J-1 approval notices

From the employee’s dependents:
1.Passport, Name, Date and place of birth
2.Copy of the front and back of I-94, if applicable
3.Proof of prior U.S. legal status, if applicable
4.Marriage certificate (for spouses)
5.Birth certificate (for children)		


AA. Frequently Asked Questions about H-1B
1. Extending H-1B Status Beyond Six Years

If H-1B visa holder filed Form I-140 or a PERM labor certification application at least 365 days before the end of his/her six-year H-1B time limit and the application is still pending, then he/she can extend his/her H-1B status beyond the six-year limit.

H-1B visa holder files an I-140 petition, which is approved. However, an immigrant visa number is unavailable to the alien due to retrogression in the relevant category. In such a situation, the alien can extend his/her H-1B status in three-year periods of time beyond the maximum of six years.In this case, he/she doesn’t need to extend his/her status 365 days before the end of his/her six-year H-1B time limit.

2. I am in H-1B status now, can I apply for NIW/EB-1 and PERM at the same time?
　　Yes, Immigration & Nationality Act allows applicants to submit multiple immigration applications at the same time. Different types of immigration applications have different requirements for applicants.
　　
3. I am in H-1B status now and plan to apply for I-140. How will my I-140 application affect my status?
　　It does not affect H-1B status, but if applicant 
　　1) Apply for F-1, F-2, B-1, B-2, J-1 or J-2 visas; 2) enter the U.S. in F-1, F-2, B-1, B-2, J-1 or J-2 status; and 3) Change your status to F-1, F-2, B-1, B-2, J-1 or J-2 status. The applicant who obtain these visas or status are not allowed to have immigrant intent. Once the applicant submits I-140, he/she has immigrant intent. So it will have an impact on F-1, F-2, B-1, B-2, J-1 or J-2 status.


4. Can I apply for multiple H-1Bs? 
`	Yes, you can apply for multiple H-1Bs. You are allowed to work for more than one U.S. employer. Each employer submits an H-1B application. And the same employer can only apply for an H-1B for the same employee.
　　Also, note that as long as you are in H-1B status and have been counted against the H-1B quota in the past six years, your petition to work for another employer concurrently is not subject to the cap.
　　
5. I haven't continued my studies since high school. Am I eligible to apply for H-1B?
　　Probably. If you have enough work experience and it is related to the job you are going to do in the United States, you may apply for H-1B even without a bachelor's degree. USCIS generally considers three years of professional experience the equivalent of one year of college education.A alien worker lacking a bachelor’s degree would need to have 12 years of relevant work experience to meet the minimum education requirements.
　　
6. Can I have a part-time H-1B job? If I currently have H-1B status under my full-time employer, is there anything I need to do? 
　　Yes. As long as your work hours are at least 50 percent of the normal full-time hours in your industry, and provided you satisfy all other requirements for an H-1B, you can obtain part-time H-1B status.
　　If you already have H-1B status, you can apply for a concurrent H-1B for another part-time job. In this situation, there is no set number of hours that you must work for each employer. You should ask the new prospective employer to apply for a part-time H-1B visa on your behalf. You are permitted to keep two or more concurrent H-1Bs.
　　
7. I am in H-1B status now. If my employment is terminated, can I stay in the United States?
The USCIS does grant up to a 10-day grace after an H-1B visa ends (and the employer doesn’t file an extension) for the individual to get their affairs in order and prepare to leave the U.S.

However, this only applies to the natural end of the visa’s validation period. If your employment is terminated before the end of that period, then these 10 days do not apply. Fortunately, you will still be protected by the new 60-day grace period.

As dictated by the terms of the H-1B visa, you have to be working and earning wages from your employer in order to maintain lawful status. If you remain employed but your employer no longer pays your wages, you will have 60 days to regain lawful status before being considered “out of status.




Q.?Who qualifies for an EB-1A green card?
The?EB-1A?is reserved for individuals who have attained extraordinary achievement in the fields of business, education, science, art, and athletics. Qualified applicants are at the very top of their field and are widely known within the industry. The work being done must also be in a position to have a positive impact on the U.S.
Q. How does the USCIS define “extraordinary”?
An “extraordinary” individual is one who has risen to the small top percentage of people in their field. This is proven by fulfilling the criteria for submittable evidence outlined by the USCIS.
Q. What evidence qualifies me for an EB-1A?
The evidence that can be submitted is classified into two groups. You can:
1. Demonstrate that you have won a major international award that is widely recognized. Examples include the Nobel Prize, an Olympic Gold Medal, or a Pulitzer Prize.
-or-
2. Demonstrate that you have fulfilled at least three of the following alternative criteria:
* Having earned a lesser award that is either nationally or internationally recognized
* Maintaining membership in a distinguished organization that requires extraordinary ability to enter.
o 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), association membership should not be part of someone’s employment. If the evidence in the record does not establish that an association of which the petitioner is a member requires outstanding achievements, the AAO has shown that it is willing to consider additional supporting documentation, as was the case in a sustained appeal by a water skier who did not initially meet the membership criterion.
* Showing that there has been material published about your work in a reputable publication.
* Having been an official judge of the work of your peers in your field (i.e., peer reviewing manuscripts for scholarly journals, reviewing conference papers, etc. This can either be done on a panel or individually. Serving as a member of a graduate dissertation committee can be applicable as well.
* Demonstrating that you have made significant contributions to your field of a scholarly or scientific nature.
* Having written scholarly articles published in major trade publications.
* Playing a critical role in a reputable organization in your field.
* Commanding a large salary that indicates your extraordinary ability.
Q. What are the rules surrounding lesser awards?
Like the above states, the award must be either nationally or internationally recognized in your field. Here is a list of items that do not qualify as lesser awards:
* Academic grants or scholarships
* Local awards
* A prize awarded to a team does not hold as much weight as an individual prize awarded to you.
To help the adjudicating officer understand the nature of your award, you should include the number of nominations and what was required to win the award.
Q. How Do I prove my membership in a distinguished organization?
You will need to submit the qualifications for membership in the organization or association. It will also help if the individuals who choose members are considered experts in their fields on an international level. Being a member of a trade union or in a local organization will not be considered as evidence.
Q. What?kind of published material about my work will be accepted?
This means that a major media network or publication must have published material that names you for your work. If you are simply an unnamed member of a team whose work was mentioned in a publication, it will not be highly considered.
Q. How can I prove that I was a judge of the work of my peers?
Simply put, you will need to show that you have sat on a panel of judges, led a workshop, or facilitated a discussion group at a national event in order to qualify. You will also need to argue what your role was and how involved you were in the judgment of the work of your peers.
Q. What kind of significant contributions are acceptable?
The contributions must be original as well as of a scholarly, artistic, business-related, or scientific nature. They need to do more than prove that you were successful, they need to prove that you are in the top percentile in your field. Because this is a very broad category, work with your immigration attorney to determine what qualifies you.
Q. What is considered evidence of success in the performing arts?
Evidence could include things such as record sales or television rates, audience viewership, press recognizing the project, royalties or revenue paid to you for the performance, etc.
Q. What will the USCIS accept as evidence for scholarly articles that I’ve written?
You need to have irrefutable evidence that you are the author of each article. These articles must also have been published in scholarly or business journals that are nationally or internationally circulated in your field. Your articles may be less valuable if your field is one in which many people publish articles.
Q. I’ve played a critical role in a distinguished organization, how do I prove this to the USCIS?
You will need to explain the organization in depth and explain your role within that organization. Evidence that you led a successful project within the organization will be given more weight. If you are being considered to fill a role, this will not be used as evidence.
Q. How do I prove that I command a large salary for my work?
Submitting financial statements demonstrating that you obtain a high salary is a great way to fulfill this criterion. Your salary or compensation will be compared to that of other individuals in similar positions in your field. If it qualifies as being in the top percentile, it has a better chance of counting.
Q. Do I have to be in the U.S. to petition?
No, you do not need to be in the U.S. in order to petition. In fact, many EB-1A applicants petition from overseas. If you are not in the U.S., you will need to go through consular processing.
Q. Do I have to work in my field?
Yes. You will need to show that you intend to work in the field through which you have attained your extraordinary ability. This, however, does not prohibit you from working part-time in a different field.
Q. Do I need reference letters to qualify?
Yes, reference letters, or letters of recommendation, are required for the evaluating officer to not only understand your field, but also to obtain proof that you are recognized in your field. Because of this, the letters of recommendation need to be from prominent experts in your field. Letters from your peers or close colleagues may not count unless they are distinguished experts. It also helps if the author of the letter is uniquely acquainted with your work or research to give the officer a better idea of your qualifications.
?
Q. Who is the petitioner in an EB-1A case?
One of the main benefits of the EB-1A green card is that you can self-petition. That essentially means you do not need a job offer. Of course, this does not prohibit you from having a sponsoring employer petition on your behalf. There are only a few green cards that allow the beneficiary to self-petition including the EB-5 for investors and the EB-2 with a National Interest Waiver.
Q.?Do I need a job offer or PERM Labor Certification?

Fortunately, due to the fact that you can self-petition, you will not need a job offer from a U.S. employer. Subsequently, you do not need to go through the PERM Labor Certification process. If you choose to have a sponsoring employer, that employer will still not be required to acquire a PERM.
Q. How long does an EB-1A green card last?
Employment-based green cards are valid for a period of ten years. At the end of the validation period, you will need to apply to renew your EB-1A. As long as you have maintained your status (e.g. you are still working in your field, you have not committed any crimes, etc.), you should not have a problem renewing your green card.
Q. Which forms are necessary for the EB-1A?
The primary document you will need is the I-140 petition which can be found on the?USCIS website. When your petition is approved and your priority date is current, you must file an I-485 application to adjust your status to legal permanent resident if you are currently in the U.S. If you are abroad, you will need to complete the DS-260 online immigrant visa application.
Q. ?Where do I send the forms?
The I-140 and the I-485 should be sent to a USCIS service center. Ask your attorney to learn exactly where you should send your forms. The DS-260 is done online and is handled by the Department of State.
Q. How long will it take to process my petition?
The I-140 is processed by a local service center. The amount of time it takes to?process your petition?is dependent on the caseload of that particular center. However, based on reports from those currently petitioning for EB-1A green cards, it takes an average of six months for your petition to be processed.
You can get the most accurate gauge of processing time by?checking the USCIS processing times. In the Form field select I-140,? then the form category and the field office or service center responsible for your case underneath that.
Q. What documents do I need alongside the petition?
Along with the I-140 petition, you need to submit all of the supporting documents that go along with proving your extraordinary ability. This may include financial documents, letters of recommendation, bank statements, snippets from publications, published articles, or even a job offer if applicable. Ultimately, your attorney will know exactly what needs to be submitted along with your I-140.
Q. What kind of approach do officers take when evaluating my case?
The USCIS employs a two-part test to adjudicate your case. In the first prong, the officer will determine whether or not you meet the requirements. This means that the officer will be looking for either evidence of a major international award or evidence that you satisfy at least three of the alternative criteria. Essentially, the officer will simply be making sure that you have submitted enough evidence.
The second step involves the officer looking at the submitted evidence to determine whether or not each item satisfies the claimed criteria. If the officer feels like the evidence proves that you are in the top percentile of your field according to the qualifications, then your case should be approved.
Q. Can I use premium processing?
Yes, you can. The EB1A?premium processing service?is a feature that the USCIS offers to expedite the I-140 processing time. For an additional fee, you can have your I-140 processed within 15 calendar days. In order to file for premium processing you should file Form I-907, Request for Premium Processing Service.
Q. Is premium processing available for all green cards?
No. Premium processing is not available for I-140 petitions filed for the EB-1C or the EB-2 National Interest Waiver.
Q. Will EB1A premium processing increase my chances of approval?

No. It is a common misunderstanding that opting for EB1A premium processing either increases your chances or ensures approval altogether. In reality, it only works to expedite the I-140 petition. It also cannot be used to shorten the I-485 processing time or change your priority date.
Q. How long will it take to process my I-485?
The I-485, like your petition, is processed by a local service center. Therefore, it is also subject to how busy that particular center is. However, it also has an average processing time of about six months.
Q. What is consular processing?
Consular processing?involves making an appointment with and traveling to a U.S. consulate or embassy in your home country. This means that a consular officer from the Department of State will adjudicate your case rather than an officer from the USCIS.
Q. Who needs to go through consular processing?
If you are outside the U.S. at the time that your I-140 is approved and your priority date is current, you will be required to go through consular processing. If you are currently inside the U.S. working under a nonimmigrant visa status, then you have the option to go through consular processing or to file an?I-485?to have your status adjusted.
Q. Is it better than adjustment of status?
This depends on your circumstances. If you have the option, then you will need to consider both the processing time and the hassle of travel involved. Consular processing requires you to visit your home country and attend an appointment with the U.S. consulate or embassy there. However, depending on how busy the consulate is, you may only need to wait a few weeks to have your appointment.
However, depending on how busy the consulate is, you may only need to wait a few weeks to have your appointment. On the other hand, an I-485 may take more than six months to process. You will, however, not be required to travel or to participate in an interview.
Q. What should I expect at the appointment?
You should arrive several minutes early to your appointment. When you arrive, check in and wait for your name to be called. When it is, you will be escorted into a room to have a one-on-one interview with a consular officer to determine if your case is legitimate. You may also have to have your?biometrics taken?(i.e. fingerprints, measurements). If the officer clears you, you will be able to enter the U.S. as a legal permanent resident. Your green card will be mailed to your address in the U.S. in about six months.
Q. Do I have to go through an interview?
In years past, EB-1A applicants have sometimes found that the interview requirement was waived for them on account of their qualifications. However, with the new administration’s plans for the immigration process, consular interviews may become a mandatory practice for all immigrants wishing to enter the U.S.
Q. What kind of questions will be asked of me at the interview?

Some of the more common questions that are asked at an EB-1A interview include questions about your work in the U.S., your experience, your extraordinary ability, and your arrangements in the U.S. Answer honestly and accurately. Not knowing is better than lying. Your attorney can accompany you to the appointment.
Q. What should I bring to my appointment?
First of all, you need to bring a print-out of the confirmation page for your completed DS-260 and a receipt of the payment you made. You also need to bring the following documents:
* A valid passport along with any expired passports
* A portrait photo of you that meets the?requirements?set by the Department of State
* All supporting documents that stand as evidence of your extraordinary ability
* Your resume or CV
Q. How much do I need to pay for my green card?
Here is a quick breakdown of the?fees that are required for your EB-1A:
* I-140 basic filing fee: $700
* I-145 filing fee: $750-$1,140. This fee depends on your age and is outlined in?this chart.
* Biometrics fee (if applicable): $85
In addition, you will need to take other costs into consideration such as premium processing, travel costs, and attorney fees.
Q. How should these payments be made?
The I-140 and I-145 filing fees should be made out to the USCIS in a money order or cashiers check. It is usually not advisable to combine the payments as it may cause confusion.
The DS-260 fee has a?very specific payment method?which you should familiarize yourself with.
Q. Can I get a refund?
Under normal circumstances, the USCIS is not in the business of handing out refunds. However, there are three situations in which you will receive a refund:
* If the USCIS has requested a form that was not necessary and required a fee.
* If the USCIS has asked for a fee payment that was greater than that which is outlined in their fee schedule.
* The USCIS will refund your premium processing fee if it fails to process your petition within 15 calendar days.
Q. What about Premium processing?

If you would like to take advantage of the optional premium processing service, it will require an additional payment of $1,440.
Q. How much will consular processing cost?
Here are the fees associated with getting your green card through consular processing:
* Biometrics fee (if applicable): $85
* DS-260 fee: $230
* Affidavit of support fee (if applicable): $88
Q. What are the attorney fees?
Immigration attorney fees vary widely depending on the law firm you choose to hire. You can view our?flat EB-1A fees?to know more about how much attorneys charge in these situations.
Q. What is my priority date?
Your priority date is the date that the USCIS receives your I-140 petition.
Q. How do I know when my priority date is current?
Each month, the Department of State releases a?visa bulletin?that displays the “final action dates” according to each green card category and the nationality of the applicant. When your priority date matches the final action date in your country and category, your date will be considered current.
Q. Are the EB-1A dates current?
Usually, you will be able to look at the charts and see that the EB-1 dates are all already current, meaning that you can file for an adjustment of status as soon as your I-140 is approved. However, there are times when certain EB-1 holders may need to wait several years before their priority date is current.
For example, as of?June 2017, applicants from China and India must wait at least 5 years before their date is current.
Q. Why is there a long waiting time for some countries and not for others?

This is due to a backlog of petitions. The Department of State only issues a certain number of immigrant visas each year. Because countries like India and China often have more applicants than other countries, a backlog builds up causing those applicants to have to wait until a visa number becomes available.
Q. What should I do once my priority date becomes current?
This depends on whether you are planning on adjusting your status or going through consular processing. If you are adjusting your status, you can now file the I-485. If you are going through consular processing, you can now make an appointment with the U.S. consulate or embassy in your home country.
Q. Why was my petition denied?
If you have had your EB-1A petition denied, then the USCIS has disclosed the reasons for your denial in the letter that was sent. If you are interested in avoiding a denial or a rejection, here are some of the top reasons:
* Mistakes on the petition
* Improperly filed fees
* Criminal history or a past violation of immigration status
* Lack of EB-1A qualifications
Q. Is there a difference between rejection and denial?
Yes. A rejection means that an issue came up that caused your petition not to make it to the decision-making stage. This is usually due to a complication with fee payment or petition mistakes such as incorrect, inconsistent, or missing information.
Denial, on the other hand, means that your petition made it to the decision-making stage and was denied by an evaluating officer. The common reasons for denial are a criminal history or not passing the two-step test of evaluation.
Q. Can I appeal the decision?
If you had your status adjusted, you may have the option to appeal the decision with a third party, the?Administrative Appeals Office (AAO). However, this is usually not the ideal case, as the appeal request could take a long time to process and the AAO often decides to uphold the original decision rather than overturn it.
The best way to go about doing this is to hire an immigration attorney to look over your case and see if anything was overlooked that could be brought to light about your case.
Q. What about legal motions?
Answer:
There are two major kinds of motions that can be made here:
Motion to Reopen
A motion to reopen the case is meant for situations in which new evidence or facts can be presented that alter the case significantly enough to warrant requesting the original entity that evaluated your case to reopen it.
Motion to Reconsider
A motion to reconsider is appropriate for situations in which you and your attorney believe that the evaluating officer was wrong in his or her decision to deny your case. You will need to present an argument that shows how you meet the requirements from a legal perspective. This is not something that you should do without the guidance of an immigration attorney.
Q. Are there good alternatives to the EB-1A?
Answer: 
If you find that you do not qualify for an EB-1A, you may want to consider applying for an?EB-2 National Interest Waiver. To qualify for this, you would need to prove that your work will have a substantial positive impact on the U.S. and that you are qualified to advance and promote that work.
Alternatively, you can apply for an EB-2 or EB-3. However, for either of these, you need a job offer from a U.S. employer and a?PERM Labor Certification. Speak with your lawyer to find an alternative that best fits your qualifications and immigration situations.
Q. What?about an RFE?
Answer: Sometimes, if the USCIS simply believes that the documentation is lacking, it may issue a Request for Evidence (RFE). If you receive this, you will have a limited window of opportunity to give a satisfactory response. The best way to handle an RFE is to have your attorney help you deal with it as soon as possible.
* When submitting evidence of an award, include additional information to give it context. Do not assume that the reputation is obvious.
* If you were offered an opportunity to be a judge, include the professional skills/credentials that led to that offer
* If discussing the role you held in an organization, explain the overarching structure and where you fall in the hierarchy
* Include significant acknowledgments
* Don’t provide evidence solely of the work within the petitioner’s internal organization





